---
title: "Regression: predicting sales based on marketing ads"
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
date: 2021-03-01
tags:
 - Regression analysis
---

One main area of focus for marketing analytics is the Return On Investments (ROI) from various marketing efforts (different advertising, promotions, events, etc.). In this example, using slightly altered [kaggle advertising data](https://www.kaggle.com/ashydv/advertising-dataset), we want to assess the effect of marketing efforts on sales and use a multiple linear regression model to predict changes in sales. The goal is to provide a recommendation to increase sales.

### Regression notation
Sales = β0 + β1 * facebook + β2 * instagram + β3 * youtube + ϵ

All 3 advertising budgets are the predictors for the sales response variable.

### Hypothesis
Null Hypothesis: β0 = β1 = β2 = β3 = 0. All predictors have no predictive value for sales

Alternative Hypothesis: βi <> 0. At least one predictor has predictive value for sales

### Explore and plot data
- Dataset has 200 rows of data and 4 variables: facebook, instagram, youtube and sales. Assume all values are in the thousands.
- Plotting the data, we see a linear relationship between facebook and sales, instagram and sales, and a non-linear relationships between youtube and sales. This suggests that every increase in facebook and instagram ads, we may see a possible increase in sales too. This means that certain marketing channels do impact sales!
- Correlation helps determine the strength of the relationships. A correlation close to +1 or -1 is pretty strong (highly accurate) and correlation close to 0 is weaker (random chance). There is highly positive correlation of 0.90 between facebook ads and sales.

```
library(tidyverse)

#Explore Data
ads <- read.csv(file = "01_advertising.csv")
head(ads)
summary(ads)

#Plots
ggplot(ads, aes(x = Facebook, y=Sales)) + 
  geom_point() + 
  stat_smooth()
ggplot(ads, aes(x = Instagram, y=Sales)) + 
  geom_point() + 
  stat_smooth()
ggplot(ads, aes(x = Youtube, y=Sales)) + 
  geom_point() + 
  stat_smooth()
  
#Find correlations
cor(ads$Sales, ads$Facebook)
cor(ads$Sales, ads$Instagram)
cor(ads$Sales, ads$Youtube)
```

### Interpret Regression model
Sales = 4.63 + 0.05 * facebook + 0.11 * instagram + 0.0003 * youtube + ϵ

- The intercept (β0) is 4.63, interpreted as the predicted sales for an advertising budget of zero
- The regression coefficient (β1) shows that for an advertising budget equal to x facebook dollars, we can expect an increase of 0.05 units in sales. For example, if facebook ads cost $5000 then Sales = 4.63 + 0.05 * $5000 = $254,630
- Adjusted R^2 = .90, indicates a good fit, it helps explain 90% of the variability in data.
- F statistic p-value < 0.05 indicate model cannot be rejected

**Model Diagnostics**

The 4 model assumptions are met.
1. The residual vs fitted plot shows the residuals in the data have a fairly linear pattern. The residuals are equally spread out around the horizontal line without any distinguishable patterns. This residual plot suggests that the model follows the regression assumptions and is a good model.
2. The normal QQ plot shows the residuals follow a linear distribution so the model is fine.
3. Scale-location looks equally randomly spread out, meeting the assumption of equal variance (homoscedasticity).
4. The residuals vs leverage plot suggests no real influential cases/ outliers in this data since points are within cooks distance lines.

```
#Multiple Linear Regression model
model1 <- lm(Sales~Facebook+Instagram+Youtube, data= ads)
summary(model1)

#Model Diagnostics
layout(matrix(c(1,2,3,4),2,2)) # optional 4 graphs/page 
plot(model1)
```

### Recommendation
Facebook and Instagram ads have more linear relationship in impacting sales. Youtube ads is not statistically significant predictor for increasing sales and the correlation is weak. We can recommend the marketing team to double down on facebook or instagram ads, but this is only looking at predictor variables for ad types - we should still consider other details that were left out of this analysis (i.e. what different demographic segments reacted best to which marketing channel and brought in more sales).

[See full code](https://github.com/jjoannel/Regressions/blob/main/01_linear%20regression.Rmd)
